Treason → Tree-son: “The dictator punished treeson severely.”
Treatment → Tree-tment: “It’s a water treetment plant.”
Treaty → Tree-ty: “Both countries signed the treety.”
Treat → Tree-t: “What a treet!”
Mainstream → Mains-tree-m: “Sorry if my puns are a bit mains-tree-m“
Illustrious → Illus-tree-ous: “His illustreeous father.”
Industrial → Indus-tree-al: “Be careful, that stuff’s industreeal strength.”
Intriguing → In-tree-guing: “The organism’s behaviour was in-tree-guing.”
Montreal → Mon-tree-al: “I’m from Mon-tree-al too!”
Patriarchy → Pa-tree-archy: “Most human societies have pa-tree-archal structures.”
Pedestrian → Pedes-tree-an: “The pedes-tree-ans rushed.”
Retreat → Re-tree-t: “A wilderness retreet.”

Retrieve → Re-tree-ve: “Can you retreeve the lost amulet?”
Streak → S-tree-k: “I’m on a winning streek!” and “The streeker was caught and arrested.”
Terrestrial → Teres-tree-al: “The tree is a teres-tree-al organism.”
Trio → Tree-o: “The tree-o set off on another adventure.”
Street: “It bounced happily down the street.”
Tremendous → Tree-mendous: “I put in a tree-mendous amount of time on that project.”
*t re* → *-tree-*: Many tree puns can be created with this rule: If a word ends in “t” and the following word begins with the “ree” sound, then a tree pun can be made. Here are some examples of pairs of words that work – note that there are multiple ways of presenting “tree” in the pun, and some random examples are shown: might rely (might tree lie or might-tree-ly), best resource (best treesources or best tree sources), just read (just treed), cannot recall (cannotreecal or cannot tree call), it reads (it tree-ds), most refreshingly (most treefreshingly or most tree freshingly), brilliant reasoning (brilliant treesoning), must really (must treeally), not remain (not tree main), just return (just tree turn), can’t refuse (can tree fuse), but really (but treeally), most remarkable (mos-tree markable), not retaining (no tree-taining). There are obviously a very large number of these sort of tree puns to be made – far too many to list here.
Treachery → Tree-chery: “The tree-chery of the man has no bounds.”
Dream → Tree-m: “I had the weirdest tree-m last night”
Triangle → Tree-angle: “Tree-angles have three sides.”
Triumph → Tree-umph: “The allied countries were tree-umphant.”
Trillion → Tree-llion: “Humans kill more than one tree-llion sea animals each year.”
Trilogy → Tree-logy: “It’s the third book in the tree-logy.”
Triathalon → Tree-athalon : “She trained hard for the tree-athalon.”
Tribulations → Tree-bulations: “She went through many trials and treebulations when starting her business.”
Traditional → Tree-ditional: “Treeditional family values are outdated.”
Transformation → Tree-nsformation: “They underwent a radical treensformation.”
Transparency → Tree-nsparency: “An open and treensparent government is very important.”
Transexual → Tree-nsexual: “Yep, I’m a male to female treensexual.”
Be → Tree: “I’m trying to tree more compassionate.”
Free → Tree: “Buy one, get one tree.”
Thee → Tree: “Shall I compare tree to a summer’s day?”
Three → Tree: “Good things come in trees.”
T-shirt → Tree-shirt: “What size is your tree-shirt?”
Absentee → Absen-tree: “Only one absentree today.”
Amputee → Ampu-tree: “The amputree was lucky to have survived.”
Devotee → Devo-tree: “A devotree of the temple”
Manatee → Mana-tree: “Manatrees are mostly marine animals.”
Guarantee → Guaran-tree: “It comes with a lifetime guarantree.”
Deportee → Depor-tree: “The deportrees were being taken to another country.”
Repartee → Repar-tree: “All this word play and repartree is making me tired.”
Country → Coun-tree: “The countree is openly going against UN conventions”
Countries → Coun-trees: “The countrees formed a strong relationship.”
Industry → Indus-tree: “We need a stronger manufacturing industree.”
Industries → Indus-trees: “All three primary industrees are booming.”
Entries → En-trees: “We’ve have over seven thousand entrees.”
Ministry → Minis-tree: “The ministree of international relations.”
Ministries → Minis-trees: “All of the ministrees are happy with the decision.”
Tapestry → Tapes-tree: “A beautifully embroidered tapestree.”
Pleasantry → Pleasan-tree: “A pleasantree is a polite part of a normal conversation.”
Pleasantries → Pleasan-trees: “We don’t have time to exchange pleasantrees.”
Toiletries → Toile-trees: “We packed the toiletrees in the other suitcase.”
Pastry → Pas-tree: “Most pastrees are quite unhealthy.”
Sentry → Sen-tree: “Put another sentree on that building, corporal.”
Poetry → Poe-tree: “Reading poetree helps me relax.”
Chemistry → Chemis-tree: “Chemistree is my second major.”
Infantry → Infan-tree: “Their heavy infantree are retreating.”
Symmetry → Symme-tree: “A square has 4 lines of symmetree.”
Registry → Regis-tree: “The registree is processing more licenses than ever.”
Geometry → Geome-tree: “It has a strange, curvy geometree.”
Forestry → Fores-tree: “The forestree department is finally getting more funding.”
Poultry → Poul-tree: “The poultree industry is a cruel one.”
Ancestry → Ances-tree: “My ancestree is primarily Aboriginal.”

Sultry → Sul-tree: “The sultree glances were unmistakable.” and “I’m hoping this sultree weather won’t last long”.
Gallantry → Galan-tree: “The captain’s gallantree won her team the title.” and “His humble gallantry has made him famous in the town.”
Carpentry → Carpe-tree: “The carpentree profession has changed over the years.”
Bigotry → Bigo-tree: “The bigotree of a racist past still exists in the corners of society.”
Circuitry → Circui-tree: “The circuitree is too hot.”
Pantry → Pan-tree: “This pantree is larger than my room!”
Dentistry → Dentis-tree: “She’s been studying dentistree for 6 years now.”
Extremism → Ex-tree-mism: “Religious extreemism is an inherent problem of religion itself.”
Austria → Aus-tree-a: “Aus-tree-a is a lovely country.”
Bloodstream → Bloods-tree-m: “The bloodstreem carries oxygen and nutrients to cells.”
Compatriot → Compa-tree-ot: “The two compa-tree-ots were competing for gold.”
Countryside → Coun-tree-side: “A walk in the coun-tree-side is what I need.”
Equestrian → Eques-tree-an: “The eques-tree-ian sports industry can be quite cruel.”
History → His-tree: “His-tree was made this day.”
Victory → Vic-tree: “Vic-tree is ours!”
Factory → Fac-tree: “The fac-tree produces all sorts of plastic goods.”
Territory → Terri-tree: “The aggressor country lost terri-tree after the war.”
Laboratory → Labora-tree: “The labora-tree of Dr. Frankenstein.”
Statutory → Statu-tree: “A Statu-tree declaration.”
Directory → Direc-tree: “A direc-tree of phone numbers.”
Satisfactory → Satisfac-tree: “Your behaviour has been satisfac-tree.”
Lavatory → Lava-tree: “Please, may I use your lava-tree?”
Inventory → Inven-tree: “While taking an inven-tree of our goods I noticed a deficit.”
Regulatory → Regula-tree: “Please consult the regula-tree body responsible for this.”
Mandatory → Manda-tree: “Wearing socks in manda-tree.”
Inflammatory → Inflamma-tree: “Those are inflama-tree comments.”
Contradictory → Contradic-tree: “Your statements are contradic-tree.”
Repository → Reposi-tree: “A vast reposi-tree of data.”
Obligatory → Obliga-tree: “Thid event is obligi-tree for new members.”
Discriminatory → Discrimina-tree: “The new rules were a bit discrimina-tree.”
Perfunctory → Perfunc-tree: “I had a perfunctree look over the manuscript.”
Derogatory → Deroga-tree: “The minister’s comments were undeniably derogatree.”
Mystery → Mys-tree: “Where my pride went is a bit of a mys-tree.”
Battery → Batree: “The new batree powered candles.”
Pottery → Pot-tree: “I practice pottery for relaxation.”
Cemetery → Ceme-tree: “This cemetree contains the body of my great grandmother.”
Lottery → Lotree: “The lottree often preys on the minorities.”
Monastery → Monas-tree: “Not far from here is the ruins of an old monas-tree.”
Adultery → Adultree: “In some conservative countries adul-tree is still illegal.”
Flattery → Flattree: “Oh enough with the flat-tree!”
Military → Mili-tree: “The ents have a powerful mili-tree.” Note: ents are a race of living trees in The Lord of the Rings.
Parliamentary → Parliamen-tree: “The parlimen-tree proceedings were slow.”
Voluntary → Volun-tree: “A volun-tree worker.”
Monetary → Monet-tree: “This old vase has a high monet-tree value.”
Commentary → Commen-tree: “We don’t need your commen-tree.”
Documentary → Documen-tree: “A documen-tree about Polynesian rainforests.”
Solitary → Soli-tree: “I prefer a soli-tree existence.”
Complimentary → Complimen-tree: “It comes with a complimen-tree gift card.”
Dietary → Diet-tree: “Diet-tree experts recommend a mostly plant-based diet.”
Elementary → Elemen-tree: “We had to bow to teachers in my elemen-tree school.”
Proprietary → Propriet-tree: “This software isn’t open-source, it’s propriet-tree.”
Hereditary → Heredit-tree: “I think my corny puns are heredit-tree.”
Sanitary → Sani-tree: “The hospital was sani-tree by necessity.”
Planetary → Planet-tree: “These planet-tree bodies have unusual orbits.”
Sedentary → Sedentree: “I’m too sedentree – I want to get a stand-up desk.”
Momentary → Momentree: “A momentree lapse of concentration was all it took.”
Century → Centree: “It’s been more than a centree since the war.”
Belief → Beleaf: “Beleaf in magic spiritual beings is outdated.”

Disbelief → Disbeleaf: “I had to suspend my disbeleaf.”
Gleeful → Gleaful: “His gleaful expression was the cutest.”
Gleefully → Gleafully: “They gleafully accepted the gifts.”
*ly F* → *-leaf f*: Thousands or perhaps millions of leaf puns can be made with this simple rule: If a word ends in the “ly” sound and if followed by a word starting with “f”, then a leaf pun can be made. Here are some examples of pairs of words that work – note that there are multiple ways of presenting “leaf” in the pun, and some random examples are shown: heartily for (hearti-leaf-or or hearty leaf for), closely from (close-leaf-rom or close-leaf from), nearly five (near-leaf-ive or near-leaf five), practically finished (practica-leaf-inished or practical-leaf finished), truly formidable (tru-leaf-ormidable or true leaf formidable), perfectly familiar (perfect-leaf-amiliar or perfect leaf familiar), nearly fifteen (near-leaf-ifteen or near leaf fifteen), possibly find (possib-leaf find), ghastly face (ghast-leaf-ace or ghast-leaf face), continually from (continua-leaf-rom), carefully fastened (carefu-leaf-astened), slowly from (slow-leaf from), rapidly formed (rapid-leaf-ormed), principally for (principal leaf for), plainly furnished (plain-leaf-urnished), hardly found (hard-leaf-ound), entirely free (entire leaf fresh), perfectly fresh, fiercely forward, nearly fallen, expressly for, terribly frightened, loudly for, swiftly forward. There’s obviously a huuuge number of different pairs of word for which this works. You could also use leaf puns as one or more of those words to create more densely leaf-punned phrases: “She gleaful-leaf frolicked through the meadow.”
Jellyfish → Jel-leaf-ish: “The je-leaf fish glided gently upwards.”
Relief → Releaf: “What a releaf!”
Cauliflower → Cau-leaf-lower: “Cau-leaf flower is a great source of vitamins.”
Amplification → Amp-leaf-ication: “We’ll need more ampleafication to reach the back seats.”
California → Caleafornia: “I’m from Caleafornia.”
Cliff → Cleaf: “It’s an extremely flat cleaf-face.”
Elephant → Eleafant: “Eleafants are herbivores.”
Exemplify → Exampleafy: “This exempleafies a terrible leaf pun.”
Facelift → Faceleaft: “Face-leafts are becoming cheaper by the day.”
Left → Leaf-t: “Turn leaft at Khalin St.”
Lift → Leaf-t: “Take the leaft to the 45th floor.”
Oversimplification → Oversimpleafication: “Your oversimpleafication of the issue is not helpful.”
Shoplifting → Shopleafting: “Shopleafting is still a major problem in many countries.”
Telephone → Teleafone: “You used to call me on the teleafphone.”
Qualification → Qua-leaf-ication: “Do you have the qua-leaf-ications for that?”
Proliferate → Pro-leaf-erate: “Critical thinking skills are proleaferating in many societies.”
Root: “We need to get to the root of this problem.”
Rooting: “I’m rooting for you!”
Route → Root: “We’ll take the short root.”
Are boring→ Arboring: “Your tree puns arboring.” The term “arbor” refers to an area surrounded and shaded by trees and vines, especially where they are trained over a framework for the purpose of creating such an area. The term can also refer to someone who trims, fells, or cares for trees as a profession.
Facepalm: “His complete ignorance and overconfidence made me want to face-palm, but I remained polite.”
A corny → Acorny: “That was acorny tree pun.”
May pull → Maple: “I maple an all-nighter to get it done.”
Pine: “I’ve been pine-ing for you all week.” Here we’re using the “miss and long for the return of” definition of “pine”.
Opine → O-pine: “She often opined at our meetings.” To “opine” is to “speak up” and declare one’s opinion openly.
Pain → Pine: As in, “A world of pine,” and “Doubled up in pine,” and “Drown the pine,” and “Feeling no pine,” and “Growing pines,” and “No pine, no gain,” and “On pine of death,” and “Pine in the butt,” and “Pine in the neck,” and “Pinefully slow,” and “A royal pine.”
Pain* → Pine*: As in, “A picture pinet-s a thousand words,” and “Pine-t with a broad brush,” and “Pine-t the town red.” Note: to paint with a broad brush is to describe a group of things in general terms.
Fine → Pine: As in, “A pine line,” and “Cut it pine,” and Damn pine coffee,” and “Pine and dandy,” and “Another pine mess you’ve gotten me into,” and “I feel pine,” and “Not to put too pine a point on it,” and “One pine day,” and “Treading a pine line,” and “Got it down to a pine art,” and “The devil is in the pine print,” and “Go through it with a pine-toothed comb.”
*pan* → *pine*: As in, “Three’s compiney,” and “Wild discrepinecys,” and “Judging pinel,” and “Expineding our business,” and “Run rampinet.” Note: a discrepancy is a difference between two things that should be equal.
*pen* → *pine*: As in, pinechant (penchant), pineguin (penguin), pinesieve (pensive), pineding (pending), pinenis (penis), pineinsula (peninsula), pinetrate (penetrate), pineance (penance), opine (open), pine (pen), happine (happen), dampine (dampen), deepine (deepen), sharpine (sharpen), ripine (ripen), propinesity (propensity), indispinesable (indispensable), appinedix (appendix), depinedent (dependent). Notes: a penchant is a fondness for something. To be pensive is to be thoughtful. A propensity is a habit for behaving in a particular way.
*pun* → *pine*: As in, “Sucker pinech,” and “Be pinectual for the exam,” and “A pinegent smell.”
*ine* → *pine*: As in, pine-evitable (inevitable), pinertia (inertia), pinexorable (inexorable), pineffable (ineffable), pinept (inept), pinert (inert), pinexplicable (inexplicable), pinevitably (inevitably). Notes: if something is ineffable, then it causes an indescribable amount of emotion.
Will not → Walnut: “I walnut stand for this!”
Leaves: “She leaves here on Tuesday.”

Leaf: “You should leaf now.”
Stumped: “I’m completely stumped.”
Stomp → Stump: “He was stumping the ground in anger.”
Beach→ Beech: “A lovely summer day at the beech.” A “beech” tree is a type of large deciduous tree.
Okay → Oak-ay: “Oakay, you’re right.”
*oak*: If a word contains “oak” or the “oak” sound, then we can make a simple partial pun of the word: awoak (awoke), bloak (bloke), buroakratic (bureaucratic), choak (choke), coakaine (cocaine), coakonut (coconut), croak, evoak (evoke), foak (folk), hoaks (hoax), joakingly (jokingly), loakated (located), Oaklahoma (Oklahoma), outspoaken (outspoken), poaker (poker), poak (poke), proaklaim (proclaim), revoak (revoke), smoaker (smoker), soak, voakal (vocal).
Sap: “He fell for it! What a sap!” The term “sap” can be slang for “a foolish and gullible person.”
Zap → Sap: “I got a small sap from the electrical switch.”
Slap → Sap: “He sapped me gently on my right cheek.”
Ent*: The “Ents” are a fictional race of large anthropomorphic trees in the Lord of the Rings series. Words starting with “ent” can thus be corny tree puns. Here are a few examples: enter, entry, enterprise, entirely, entrance, entered, entitled, entertainment, entity, enterprise, entailed, entertainer, entwine.
Bitch → Birch: “Yeah, people are a bit birchy at my work.”
Asked → Axed: “Axe, and you shall receive.”
Will owe → Willow: “After this I willow you even more money.”
Saw → Seed: “I seed it with my own eyes!”
Knot: “Can you help me tie this knot?”
Not → Knot: “I will knot put up with this anymore.”
For → Fir: “Fir only a second.” A “fir” tree is an evergreen coniferous tree with needle-shaped leaves, commonly used for timber and resin.
You → Yew: “Yew and me.” A “yew” tree is a coniferous tree that has red berrylike fruits. It can live to a very old age, is poisonous, and is often used for cabinet making.
Popular → Poplar: “Yes, vegan restaurants are becoming very poplar.” A poplar is a species of tall, fast-growing tree.
See the → Cedar: “Cedar forest for the trees.” A “cedar” is any of a number of conifer species which yield fragrant and durable timber.
Wouldn’t → Wooden: “Wooden you think?”
Would → Wood: “Wood you help me out for a while?”
Shady: “There’s some shady character following me.”
Drunk → Trunk: “A bunch of trunk idiots.”
Cops → Copse: “We should call the copse.” A “copse” is a small group of trees (a “thicket” or “grove”).
Chop: “We’ve been chopping and changing trying to make a decision.”
Shrunk → Shtrunk: “My shirt shtrunk in the wash.”
Bark: “All bark and no bite.”
Saw: “After she explained it, I saw her point”.
Saw dust → Sawdust: “These puns are so old I sawdust on them.”
Palm: “You’ll have to grease their palms.” Note: to grease someone’s palm is to bribe them.
Ask → Ashk: “I’ll ashk if it’s okay.”
Friends → Fronds: “Me and my best fronds.”
Friendly → Frondly: “He has such a frondly air about him.”
A case of → Acacia: “I’ve come down with acacia winter flu.”
Stick: “Stick with me, you’ll be all right.”
Sticking: “We’re at a bit of a sticking point.”
Sticky: “Eww, it’s all sticky.”
Schtick → Stick: “Okay, you’ve worn out the tree puns schtick now, it’s not funny anymore.”
Can offer → Conifer: “I conifer you a 30% discount if you buy now.”
Carnivorous → Coniferous: “Cats are coniferous animals.”
Spruce: “We need to spruce you up a bit.” A spruce is the type of conifer that’s often used for Christmas.
Space → Spruce: As in, “In deep spruce,” and “In spruce, no one can hear you scream,” and “Personal spruce,” and “A waste of spruce,” and “Watch this spruce,” and “Taking up spruce.”
Sick of mor* → Sycamore-*: Words beginning with the “more” sound can be made into sycamore puns when preceded by “sick of”, for example: “I’m sycamorning TV shows” (I’m sick of morning TV shows), “I getting sycamore tree puns.” (I’m getting sick of more tree puns).
Alternate → Alder-nate: “It alder-nates between black and white.” An “alder” is a tree of the birch family.
Tapped: “I tapped him on the shoulder.” Some trees (like rubber trees) are “tapped”, meaning they have their sap extracted via a hole in the trunk.
Log: “Make sure to log your hours on the time sheet.”
Limb: “I’m going to go out on a limb here.” and “My limbs feel so heavy.”
Bow → Bough: “Boughing to visitors is polite in my culture.” A “bough” is any of the larger branches of a tree.
Bowl → Bole: “I’ll need a bigger bole.” The “bole” is another term for the trunk of a tree.
Burly: “I saw a burly figure come out of the shadows.” A “burl” or “bur” is deformation or “knot” in the growth of a tree.
Fell: “I fell victim to an online scam.” The term “fell” is a word for “to cut down” when referring to a tree, as in “She felled the tree with her axe.”
I’m → Elm: “Elm not sure if it’s the right thing to do.”
Confer → Conifer: “I need to conifer with my advisers before making a decision.”
Lumber: “He clumsily lumbered over to greet me.” The term “lumber” can refer to slow, heavy, awkward movement.
Can of pee → Canopy: “That thing’s worth less than a can-o’-py.”
Grave → Grove: “You must leave – you are in grove danger.”
Gum: “Stop flapping your gums and get back to work.” and “Chewing gum isn’t allowed here.” The term “gum” can refer to a viscous secretion of some trees that hardens on drying. It may also refer to a tree which has secretes this substance.
Phlegm → Phloem: “I’ve got a cold and a phloemy throat.” The term “phloem” refers to the plant tissue tubes that conduct nutrients around the plant.
Gall: Refers to an abnormal growth on plants and trees, especially in response to the presence of insects or mites. It also mean “bold and impudent behaviour”: “He had the gall to make more tree puns even after I shouted at him to stop.”
Branch: “We need to branch out into other sectors.” and “We’re opening another branch in this town.”
Lifeless → Leafless: “A seemingly leafless figure lay on the beach.”
Life → Leaf: “Well, that’s just leaf I guess.”
Plant: “She planted her feet firmly on the ground, ready to fight.”
Decision → Deciduous: This one is very corny! “Finally, we’ve arrived at a deciduous!”
Shoot: “Shooting animals for sport is cowardly.” Note that a “shoot” in the leafy context refers to a young branch or leaf springing from a stem.
Tree-Related Words
No doubt there are many more puns to be made, so we’ve gathered together a list of tree-related words to help you come up with your own tree puns. If you come up with any good ones, please share them in the comments and we’ll add them to our list!

limb, bough, bole, burl, arbor, sumac, teak, fell, elm, twig, alder, azalea, log, heath, spruce, conifer, stick, saw, sawdust, acacia, tree house, frond, palm, palm tree, chop, copse, cecar, poplar, yew, yew tree, fir, fir tree, ash, knot, seed, willow, axe, birch, bush, bark, trunk, stump, ent, sap, oak, leaf, leaves, leave, walnut, pine, maple, acorn, root, tree, forest, wood, wooden, shrub, eucalyptus, beech, deciduous, evergreen, bamboo, grove, banyan, hornbeam, baobab, bonsai, canopy, rainforest, casuarina, unga, puka, yukka, linden, souari, lumber, poon, bayberry, gum tree, chestnut, mangrove, photosynthesis, fern, cypress, sapwood, heartwood, botanist, xylem, phloem, sapling, cycad, perennial, hazel, fig tree, pear tree, orchard, ginkgo, tannin, botany, banana tree, sequoia, aboreal, hickory, silva, ironwood, aspen, lumberjack, hardwood, pollard, hemlock, taproot, graft, grafting, flowering, sandalwood, foliage, underbrush, tea tree, vegetation, redwood, growth rings, softwood, lignin, mahogany, timber, rosewood, beechwood, thicket, cellulose, sawmill, plywood, forestry, kauri, plank, oaken, wooded, mulch, branch, barky, cinnamon, gum, greenery, larch, juniper, girdle, knar, filbert, gall, treetops, tree huggers, elderberry, pine cone, cone, haw, olive tree, rubber tree, sassafras, yellowwood

Tree-Related Phrases
Cliches, idioms and common phrases can often be used to make some subtle puns about the subject of your wordplay. Tree puns are no exception, and so we’ve included a list of all the tree-related phrases that we could find. If you know any more, please share them in the comments!

Bark is worse than its bite
Barking up the wrong tree
See the forest for the trees
The root of the problem
Grease one’s palm
Go out on a limb
Branch out
Grass roots movement
Log off / log on
Don’t take any wooden nickels
Little strokes fell great oaks
Must have learned to whisper in a sawmill
Knock on wood
Touch wood
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush
Make like a tree and leave
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow
Put on the wooden overcoat
Shiver me timbers
An apple doesn’t fall far from the tree
Bust in the chops
By your leave
Don’t be a stick in the mud
Don’t keep a dog and bark yourself
Better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick
Dumb as a stump
Even a blind squirrel finds an acorn sometimes
Had me stumped
Have an axe to grind
How much wood can a woodchuck chuck?
In limbo
In the sticks
Let’s tie the knot
Money doesn’t grow on trees
More cliches than you can shake a stick at
Old chestnut
Sleep like a log
Take a leaf out of your book
Turn over a new leaf
Take it or leave it
The short end of the stick
This neck of the woods
Beat the bushes
Beat around the bush
Walk the plank


Leave → Leaf: “Take it or leaf it” and “Absent without leaf” and “You should leaf now.” and  “Leaf an impression” and “Leafed for dead” and “Leaf it at that” and “Leaf me alone!” and “Leaf of absence” and “Leaf out in the cold” and “Take leaf” and “Leafing so soon?”
Leaves: “It leaves a lot to be desired” and “It leaves a bad taste in your mouth”
Belief → Beleaf: “Beleaf in magic spiritual beings is outdated.”
Disbelief → Disbeleaf: “I had to suspend my disbeleaf.”
Gleeful → Gleaful: “His gleaful expression was the cutest.”
Gleefully → Gleafully: “They gleafully accepted the gifts.”
*ly F* → *-leaf f*: Thousands or perhaps millions of leaf puns can be made with this simple rule: If a word ends in the “ly” sound and if followed by a word starting with “f”, then a leaf pun can be made. Here are some examples of pairs of words that work – note that there are multiple ways of presenting “leaf” in the pun, and some random examples are shown: heartily for (hearti-leaf-or or hearty leaf for), closely from (close-leaf-rom or close-leaf from), nearly five (near-leaf-ive or near-leaf five), practically finished (practica-leaf-inished or practical-leaf finished), truly formidable (tru-leaf-ormidable or true leaf formidable), perfectly familiar (perfect-leaf-amiliar or perfect leaf familiar), nearly fifteen (near-leaf-ifteen or near leaf fifteen), possibly find (possib-leaf find), ghastly face (ghast-leaf-ace or ghast-leaf face), continually from (continua-leaf-rom), carefully fastened (carefu-leaf-astened), slowly from (slow-leaf from), rapidly formed (rapid-leaf-ormed), principally for (principal leaf for), plainly furnished (plain-leaf-urnished), hardly found (hard-leaf-ound), entirely free (entire leaf fresh), perfectly fresh, fiercely forward, nearly fallen, expressly for, terribly frightened, loudly for, swiftly forward. There’s obviously a huuuge number of different pairs of word for which this works. You could also use leaf puns as one or more of those words to create more densely leaf-punned phrases: “She gleaful-leaf frolicked through the meadow.”

Jellyfish → Jel-leaf-ish: “The je-leaf fish glided gently upwards.”
Relief → Releaf: “What a releaf!”
Cauliflower → Cau-leaf-lower: “Cau-leaf flower is a great source of vitamins.”
Amplification → Amp-leaf-ication: “We’ll need more ampleafication to reach the back seats.”
California → Caleafornia: “I’m from Caleafornia.”
Cliff → Cleaf: “It’s an extremely flat cleaf-face.”
Elephant → Eleafant: “Eleafants are herbivores.”
Exemplify → Exampleafy: “This exempleafies a terrible leaf pun.”
Facelift → Faceleaft: “Face-leafts are becoming cheaper by the day.”
Left → Leaf-t: “Turn leaft at Khalin St.”
Lift → Leaf-t: “Take the leaft to the 45th floor.”
Oversimplification → Oversimp-leaf-ication: “Your oversimpleafication of the issue is not helpful.”
Shoplifting → Shopleafting: “Shopleafting is still a major problem in many countries.”
Telephone → Teleafone: “You used to call me on the teleafphone.”
Qualification → Qua-leaf-ication: “Do you have the qua-leaf-ications for that?”
Proliferate → Pro-leaf-erate: “Critical thinking skills are proleaferating in many societies.” Note: to proliferate is to quickly increase in number.
Friends → Fronds: “Me and my best fronds.”
Friendly → Frondly: “He has such a frondly air about him.”
Can of pee → Canopy: “That thing’s worth less than a can-o’-py.” (See tree puns)
Phlegm → Phloem: “I’ve got a cold and a phloemy throat.” The term “phloem” refers to the plant tissue tubes that conduct nutrients to and from the leaves.
Branch: “We need to branch out into other sectors.” and “We’re opening another branch in this town.” (See tree puns)
Lifeless → Leafless: “A seemingly leafless figure lay on the beach.”
Life → Leaf: “Well, that’s just leaf I guess.”
Plant: “She planted her feet firmly on the ground, ready to fight.”
Decision → Deciduous: This one is very corny! “Finally, we’ve arrived at a deciduous!”
Shoot: “Shooting animals for sport is cowardly.” Note that a “shoot” in the leafy context refers to a young branch or leaf springing from a stem.
Cover → Clover: “You can’t judge a book by its clover.”
Cute → Cuticle: “Awww, that’s so cuticle!” A leaf’s cuticle is the waxy layer around it that protects it from damage.
